Add content on configuring VPNs on the Choreo cloud data plane (#1495)
wso2/docs-choreo-dev: en/docs/devops-and-ci-cd/configure-vpns-on-the-choreo-cloud-data-plane.md

The following diagram illustrates the high-level deployment architecture of the Tailscale pre-installed forward proxy:

![Deployment architecture](../assets/img/devops-and-ci-cd/tailscale/deployment-architecture.png)

Let's take a look at the specifics of each part to understand the deployment architecture.

**Choreo project**

In Choreo, a project groups various components. For more information on what a project in Choreo is, see the documentation on [Project](../choreo-concepts/project.md).

**Tailscale proxy**

This acts as the Tailscale pre-installed forward proxy, facilitating secure peer-to-peer WireGuard connections from the Choreo cloud data plane to private networks. It includes a [Tailscale Daemon](https://tailscale.com/kb/1278/tailscaled), [SOCKS5 proxy](https://tailscale.com/kb/1112/userspace-networking#socks5-vs-http), and a configurable TCP forwarder.

> **Tailscale daemon**

Author: Done.

This is the core component of Tailscale. It is a software service that provides secure network connectivity and private networking solutions. For more details see the [Tailscale documentation](https://tailscale.com/kb/1278/tailscaled).

> **SOCKS5 proxy**

Author: Done.

User applications within the same namespace (project) can use the Kubernetes service created to front the Tailscale proxy, for connecting to the corresponding private endpoints. You can either expose this service within the organization via the internal API gateway or expose it to the public via the external API gateway. For more details, see the documentation on [Choreo endpoints](../develop-components/configure-endpoints.md).

<hr>

Now that you understand the deployment architecture, let’s explore how you can use Tailscale to secure connections to your private networks.

## Configure and use Tailscale to access private network endpoints

This section walks you through the steps to create, configure, deploy, and use the Tailscale proxy component. 
  
![Tailscale proxy deployment](../assets/img/devops-and-ci-cd/tailscale/tailscale-proxy-deployment.png)

Let's get started.

### Prerequisites

- Understand the basics of [how Tailscale works](https://tailscale.com/blog/how-tailscale-works).
- Have a Tailscale account (Tailnet). There are multiple plans available for you to set up your Tailscale network. For details, see [Tailscale plans](https://tailscale.com/pricing).

> - Install Tailscale and connect your private services and database server to it. To quickly get started with Tailscale, see the [Tailscale quickstart](https://tailscale.com/kb/1017/install).

Author: Applied suggestion with a minor change because the comma there doesn't seem correct.
 Install Tailscale and connect your private data center, server to it, - - > Install Tailscale and connect your private data center or server to it,

#### Step 2.2: Configure and deploy the component

To configure and deploy the component, follow the steps given below:

1. In the left navigation menu, click **Deploy**.
2. On the **Build Area** card, click **Configure &  Deploy**.
3. In the **Environment Configurations** pane that opens, click **+ Add** and add the `TS_AUTH_KEY` environment variable as a secret. To add the environment variable, you must obtain an authentication key from your Tailscale network.
    - For details on how to obtain an authentication key from your Tailscale network, see [Auth keys](https://tailscale.com/kb/1085/auth-keys) in the Tailscale documentation.
4. Click **Next**.
5. In the **File Mount** pane that opens, click **+ Add**.
6. To mount a configuration file to the Tailscale proxy component and specify the port mapping for the TCP forward proxy running there, do the following:
    1. Specify `/Config.yaml` as the **Mount Path**.
    2. Specify the following in the sample configuration file:
       ```
       portMappings:
           8080: "100.108.78.93:8090"
           8081: "100.108.78.93:1433"

>        ```

Reviewer: Shall we add a note (or something) after this portMappings configuration saying the following?
- In this example configuration, the TCP traffic coming via port `8080` of your tailscale-proxy will be forwarded to the port `8090` of the node with IP `100.108.78.93` in your Tailscale network and the port `8081` maps to the corresponding address. You may find this IP address via [Tailscale machines](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/machines) page of your Tailscale network's admin console or via the Tailscale clients running on your machine.

Author: +1.
Added a note.

        port: 8081
        type: TCP
        networkVisibility: Project
        context: /

    ```

9. Click **Save**.
10. Click **Next** and then click **Deploy**.

    !!! note
        Deploying the component may take a while. You can track the progress by observing the logs. Once the deployment is complete, the build status changes to **Active** on the **Development** environment card.

When the component is deployed, you can observe a new node connected to your Tailscale network. To view this, go to the [Tailscale machines](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/machines) page of your Tailscale coordination server.

### Step 3: Access private network endpoints with the Tailscale proxy

Now you have successfully deployed the Tailscale proxy in your project and it is connected to your Tailnet. You can proceed to use the Tailscale proxy to provision access for other components to securely access private network endpoints.

You can [configure endpoints](https://wso2.com/choreo/docs/develop-components/configure-endpoints/#learn-the-endpointsyaml-file) of the Tailscale proxy to use it for various aspects within Choreo.

## Post-deployment actions

### Handle node key expiry

> Tailscale nodes have a default [node key](https://tailscale.com/kb/1010/node-keys) expiry time of 180 days. Nodes require re-authentication after key expiry to avoid connection losses and application downtime. Consider disabling node key expiry if needed. For more details,  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tailscale nodes have a default [node key](https://tailscale.com/kb/1010/node-keys) expiry time of 180 days. Nodes require re-authentication after key expiry to avoid connection losses and application downtime. Consider disabling node key expiry if needed.  
```

# Configure VPNs on the Choreo Cloud Data Plane

Secure access to private networks from the Choreo cloud data plane is an essential use case for cloud data plane users. 

> Choreo allows this secure connection using [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com/). For this, Choreo provides a pre-installed Tailscale image that you can use in your Choreo project. This image acts as a forward proxy, allowing you to connect to your private endpoints through Tailscale's peer-to-peer [WireGuard](https://tailscale.com/kb/1035/wireguard) network tunnels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choreo allows this secure connection using [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com/). For this, Choreo provides a pre-built image component with Tailscale paired with a forward proxy, which you can deploy in your Choreo project as a Service. Using this service, you can forward traffic to your external networks via Tailscale’s peer-to-peer [wireguard](https://tailscale.com/kb/1035/wireguard) network.
```

Author: Applied suggestion with a minor tweak to improve clarity.
